---
title: "Generative Design Podium"
excerpt: "This is a podium made using generative design techniques. It was designed to be printed on a large fromat 3D printer."
header:
  image: assets/img/Syring e Pump Pic 1.jpg
  teaser: assets/img/Syring e Pump Pic 1.jpg
gallery:
  - image_path: assets/img/Syring e Pump Pic 2.jpg
  - image_path: assets/img/Syring e Pump Pic 3.jpg
  - image_path: assets/img/Syring e Pump Pic 5.jpg
   
---

# Design  

The design for a Large Format 3D Printed (LF3DP) podium that incorporates Generative Design concepts had more obstacles to overcome than a typical 3d print. I started by creating an actual podium that had the desired dimensions and number of shelves I wanted. I then removed the side walls of the podium so only the podium top, shelves, and front logo were remaining. This allows the Generative Design software to create organic sidewalls and support structures that use less material but have the same mechanical properties. Next, I blocked off some areas of the podium that I did not want the generative design to put support material in such as on most of each shelf. Lastly, I had to change the inputs for the Generative design to use when creating potential podium outcomes. The minimum feature size was 30mm because this was going to be printed on a LF3DP. The overhang angle was changed to a minimum of 45 degrees. The overhang angle is very important because the podium was printed with the front face down. This was to allow the shelves to be printed without any bridging needed. The overhang angle ensured the print would be possible in this configuration without the use of any support material. After the Generative Design podium was created, I had to manually edit some of the organic structures to ensure the overhang angles were acceptable for LF3DP. 

# Small Scale Model 



# CAD Model

<iframe src="https://vanderbilt643.autodesk360.com/shares/public/SH512d4QTec90decfa6ed3f0a23dc9648c55?mode=embed" width="640" height="480" allowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true"  frameborder="0"></iframe>


# LF3DP and Generative Design Overview

  Large Format 3D Printing is a relatively new technological advancement. Small and medium sized 3D printers have become increasingly more popular and significant advancements in their technology have been made because of their popularity. One of the biggest drawbacks with any small or medium sized 3D printing technology is the maximum dimension size that a part can be. This applies to all 3D printing technologies such as filament printing, resin printing, SLS printing, mSLS printing, and more. Large Format 3D Printing (LF3DP) is trying to mitigate this problem. Instead of only being able to 3D print the bracket for a car bumper, someone could print the whole front bumper. There are even some people attempting to print items as large as a boat using this technology. Some drawbacks are the dimensional accuracy and support material problems. The parts being printed have much larger nozzles for printing the material than a typical 3D printer would, causing the dimensional accuracy and surface finish to be not nearly as nice. It is also very hard to use support material for 3D prints so most prints must be optimized so that they do not need any support material at all. Lastly, this technology is very expensive. A typical filament 3D printer costs around $300. The filament alone for LF3DP, also known as pellets, can cost more than $300. This means the technology would need to show major benefits over other alternatives in order to be financially worth it to use. This technology can be revolutionary, but for now there is still more testing and improvements that need to be made. 
	Generative Design is also a relatively newer technology. The concept behind generative design is to create parts with as little material as possible but with the same mechanical properties as the original design. Commercial parts that are 3D printed are designed with specific mechanical properties in mind depending on the function of the part being designed. These parts are often run through various simulations to ensure the part will perform as needed. One of the biggest problems with these designs is their weight and cost to produce. More material means more strength, but it also increases production time, costs, and the mass of each individual part. Generative design will create a part with the same exact desired properties but with a lot less weight. It removes material anywhere on the part that is unnecessary in order to reduce weight. Ghis also cuts back on production time and costs. Some drawbacks with generative design are the iteration process often necessary to design a part. The parts are processed and made through the use of modern computers but often times some adjustments have to be made and more simulations must be run before a final product is made. Generative Design has the possibility to revolutionize the way future parts are made. 
	Planetary surface construction has become a topic of a lot of interests in recent times. There are new companies starting all the time with an interest in building civilizations on other planets such as mars. NASA has also continued to develop their own technologies in many different areas in order to make the Sci-Fi dream of living on mars into a reality. The problem a lot of these researchers are facing is how to get the materials to other planets in order to be reassembled. Some machines have to be constructed here on earth and then transported to other planets without breaking anything. These materials and machines can become very heavy, which means you need even larger rockets and spaceships in order to move everything from earth to another planet. Some companies are trying to solve this problem by increasing the size of rockets that we can reliably use for transportation. This may reduce the weight problem we currently face but the price of constructing these rockets is upwards of $3,000,000,000 per rocket. Many researchers and companies are looking to alternative solutions to fix this same problem that are much cheaper but just as reliable. This is where Large Format 3D Printing and Generative Design come in. 
	A solution that has become increasingly more popular for companies that want to achieve planetary surface construction is the use of untraditional or new materials. PEEK is an example of a 3D printable material that has very similar mechanical advantages as steel but weighs much less. Some 3D printers are able to start incorporating carbon fiber into their prints, thus increasing strength and decreasing weight of the part being printed. If these companies were able to print out large parts they need for planetary surface construction, they could take a huge step forward towards someday achieving their goal. Large format 3D printing is the answer to printing large objects made of lighter and stronger materials than traditional metals. The technology is still fairly underdeveloped meaning a lot of parts currently being printed have poor dimensional accuracy. The reliability of the parts made on these printers is also currently something that needs to be improved before large-scale production could begin. These are small hurdles that will soon be overcome. LF3DP will allow companies to print whole engines, thrusters, body panels, and more without having to make a lot of small prints and attach them all together. These parts will be much lighter than their metal counterparts which means rockets can be lighter. Landing pads, roads, and radiation shelters are all examples of printable parts that could be transported and reassembled on another planet. Generative design also has a big role to play in getting humanity one step closer to planetary surface construction. LF3DP allows companies to use lighter materials with similar mechanical properties. Generative design will allow them to use less material and still achieve the same mechanical properties. This means the parts that need to be transported in order to start building civilizations on other planets can be maximized for weight efficiency without compromising and structural integrity.  Generative designs will also make LF3DP easier because less material needs to be used and parts can be made much quicker. The use of both of these technologies could be the answer humans have been looking for in order to finally achieve planetary surface construction. 
	As previously stated, we still have a lot of improvements that need to be made before large-scale production can begin using LF3DP and generative design. LF3DP must become more reliable and efficient. Currently, only limited materials can be printed because of the many problems large-scale printers face. Bed adhesion becomes increasingly difficult with so much surface area needed and the increased nozzle diameter. Part shrinkage or warping is also significantly harder to control with larger prints. Some of the simpler things regular 3D printers have achieved cannot be done on a LF3DP such as the use of support material and multi-material prints. All these problems must be solved before this technology can come close to being reliable enough for planetary surface construction. Generative design has some constraints as well that must be removed as technology continues to advance. Current programs and computers are able to create generatively designed parts in a somewhat reasonable time, but a lot of editing and iterating must then be done before a final product can be reached. It is easy for a researcher to design their own part that needs no support material and is structurally sound given current software. It is much harder to tell a computer to create a generative design that follows these same parameters on the first try. Often times, researchers use the generative design as a foundation for the part being made, but they must then manually add or subtract to the part as needed to make it into something that can be 3D printed. There are still limits as well on how well software programs can create simulations that are as accurate to reality as possible. These are some of the biggest problems that are holding back generative design technology. Planetary surface construction is a wonderful idea that will likely someday be achieved. There are some major technological advancements that must be made with large format 3D printing and generative Design before either of these technologies can be used to one day build civilizations on other planets. 



{% include gallery caption="" %} 








